Greetings again from Southern
California. My name is Joe Simpson Jr.
I'm a volunteer wrangler for WordPress
Accessibility Day, I'm also a WordCamp
WordPress Meetup and WordCamp Community
organizer as well as an accessibility advocate.
Similar to Alicia's story that we just heard
in the last hour, Sumner Davenport shaped
my re-entry into accessibility as well. Now I
know two people in my entire life that are me.
I have a workout friend who is always ready
to go, no matter rain or shine just like me,
no excuses. Sumner is that other person.
She matches my desire to learn with inspiration,
knowledge and nurturing leadership here
in the North Valleys of Los Angeles.
Now I met Sumner, I went to a meetup in West
Hills to see her speak, because I was hosting our
first WordCamp in Santa Clarita and I had heard
about her and the topic was very interesting.
What happened at that meetup
is why I'm here before you today.
She's that type of magnetic personality.
She killed her presentation and she said yes and
presented at our meetup and we've been close ever
since. Sumner will present the Profitability
of Accessibility, but first let me tell you
more about this amazing woman. Sumner Davenport
specializes in web accessibility on WordPress.
Her passion is to educate business owners and web
designers using WordPress, on the increased value
and ease of it of an accessible, an accessible
site. Through her long-standing organization
she and her team built, maintained, evaluated
and remediated, dozens of WordPress websites to
WCAG 2.1 success criterion. Her clients are
referred by other clients and from attorneys.
She's an active, she's active in accessibility
and legal conferences and educational venues.
At WordCamps and local WordPress groups
she regularly speaks on topics related
to compliance issues for WordPress. After
presenting at WordCamp Santa Clarita in 2019,
she volunteered to be a speaker
wrangler at WordCamp Santa Clarita
and is on the speaker wrangler
team for WordCamp Los Angeles 2020.
She and two colleagues founded a
local meetup to discuss WordPress
and accessibility and invited renowned speakers
on accessibility topics to be guest presenters.
Partnering with two other local meetup organizers
they organized the first annual mega meetup
WordPress Accessibility Day 2020. She is a member
of the International Association of Accessibility
Professionals, the IAAP and is an active
supporter of various disability organizations.
Please welcome Sumner Davenport presenting the
Profitability of Accessibility. Sumner take it away.
[Sumner] I don't, I don't, I don't know if I can talk after
that introduction Joe. Goodness, I'm glad I, I have
my Kleenex handy. You really touched me with the
beginning of that introduction. Thank you so very
very much. I am very honoured to be here tonight.
I'm, I am so glad that I was selected to speak.
Thank you so much to Joe Dolson for putting this
together, and for saying yes to me and of course
for Joe Simpson. He is a inspiration to me a lot. So
I'm going to jump into my topic. Let's see if I can
get my screen share to work here today. If there's
any problem hearing me, if you have any problem
with my screen, make sure that you make a comment
so that one of the Joes here can let me know.
If you have any questions as I go along, please
put them in the chat on the stream on YouTube, so
that Joe can let me know what those are, because
I want to be as helpful as I possibly can during
the time that we have tonight. So let's see if we
can find my PowerPoint. So the topic that I was
going to talk about tonight is called
The Profitability of Accessibility
and I feel very honoured that last night Joe
Simpson took a few minutes to let me do a
kind of a test run on this topic. And I made a
little bit of an edit, and then today another
associate said, hey let me hear what you're going
to do because I can't be there tonight. So I did,
and after hearing what I had to say she
kind of hemmed and hawed and said hmm, I'm not
thrilled with the title. I thought well you
know, but the title is Profitability, the
profitability is the degree to which a business
or activity yields a profit or a financial gain.
Although accessibility, bringing accessibility
to all persons is really the right thing to do,
it's important if this is what you're doing
professionally, that you can make some money,
you can have an income, you can thrive, so
you can enjoy it. So yeah, profitability.
So I know, I thought about it for a minute and
then she said, I think it's all in the title.
I just don't like the title. So based on her
input I changed the title. So tonight I didn't, I did not warn Joe Dolson.
I, already sent in my
slides. So I apologize if you are following me on the slides online, this next slide is not part
of it. Just one, it's now called,
Show Me the Money, because isn't that what people want to learn? If
you as a web designer, as a business owner, as an
agency owner, if you start to put your efforts
into including accessibility and do all the
projects you do for your client, don't you want to
know that there's a way that you can get a return
on investment on your time and your efforts? Well
I kind of figured that was a better title and for
anybody that knows me, it kind of sounds more
like me as well. So tonight we're going to talk
about how you can get a return on investment on
your time and your efforts with accessibility and
how you can then also have a good way to explain
accessibility to your clients, so that they also
can see the return on investment for bringing
accessibility into all of their digital products
and their company. So first off just of course we
all know this, but we're just going to touch on it,
but what is accessibility? Accessibility is
removing the barriers that prevent people from
having access, equal access whether it's a building,
an area, a service that's being provided, a website
an app, any digital product. And accessibility is
taking that initiative to create products that are
usable by, with people, by people, with the widest
possible range of abilities. What some people may
not know, is when you think accessibility first, and
think about making things accessible to all people,
you open so many avenues, so many possibilities, so
much creativity and innovation, that accessibility
creates good growth in a lot of ways.
And I'll touch on some of those tonight.
What is web accessibility specifically? We have seen
the wA11y, sometimes the w is out there, it's just
the A 1 1 y and what that means is that between
the A and the y there is actually 11 letters
that should be in there, because it spells out
the entire word, accessibility. We put the W
in there for web, so when you see wAlly or
Ally, whichever way you want to pronounce
this, it's accessibility. It's about people.
It's about making a difference. So web
accessibility refers to the website that is
designed for everyone! We want everyone, regardless
of their ability or disability, to have the same
ease of access. That's the most important part. It's
the user experience that everybody gets to have.
So we also have to keep in mind that web
accessibility, it actually involves a wide
range of disabilities. So many times we hear
people talk about only screen readers, or
blind individuals, or somebody needing
captions without taking into an understanding
that there are far more areas and ranges
of disabilities that we need to consider.
So then I get people that say this to me all the
time, rather sarcastically, they unfortunately do.
Is there really a need for web accessibility? I
mean, after all how many people really are disabled ?
I'm in the United States, so some of the figures
and facts that I will present this evening are
based on my area. But since this is global I
also am going to show some figures and I'll
make comments on some other countries as well.
Because accessibility is international.
In the United States, 25.6 percent of adults in the
United States have some type of disability .
And that number fluctuates, because there are
disabilities that individuals are born with,
there are disabilities that people suddenly
get because of an accident or an illness,
or surgery. There's disabilities that come with
age. So that number is not just 25.6 percent.
It's really a fluctuating number that
could affect every single one of us.
Around the world there are more than one billion
people living with some form of disability.
So when someone says, is there really a need for web
accessibility, is there really people that need it?
I kind of think there is. I kind of think that
it's important that we take a look at what
I know to be an invisible segment of our society.
When I ask people why their site is not accessible
or why they don't consider accessibility, they
don't think they have ever seen or know anybody,
but maybe that guy that just passed him in the
hallway, that might have a disability. They don't
consider how many people they're overlooking.
It's an invisible segment of our society that we
need to bring visible. And it's not them versus us.
It's not one group versus another. It's all of us,
it's all of us collectively that make up this
group. People with disabilities are in a community
that makes up a whole lot more than just the
single individual, because it's their families,
their communities, their friends, the people
that they do business with, the people that
they interact with, it's a very powerful consumer
base. And if a company has a website and they're
not accessible, they're missing out on this very
powerful base. So then the next question comes up.
Is there really a problem? I mean after all,
how big a problem, if there is one, how big is it?
So for those of you that are familiar, there's a
company WebA I M, and every year they do an audit on
the home page only, of one million sites. And for
2019, actually I correct myself, February of 2020
they did their million sites evaluation
and what showed up was, 98.1 %
of all the sites they tested had errors,
had barriers to people with disabilities.
Ninety-eight point one percent of the sites they tested out of one million,
less than 2% were fully accessible.
And I put on the screen that big number because
I want people to see that number. I want it to be
important. I want it to, to let it be known that there
is an opportunity for us as web designers to
make a difference. It's a huge opportunity and the
source link to that is at the bottom of the screen.
But are there other problems with the lack
of web accessibility? I mean other than just
WebAIMS one million report? Absolutely, because
of the lack of web accessibility we are seeing
one million report? Absolutely, because
of the lack of web accessibility we are seeing a drastic increase in web accessibility
lawsuits. As Joe mentioned, I work with
clients who are referred to me by attorneys.
Since Covid started, my phone, my email, people
contacting me because they've received demand
letters, attorneys contacting me inquiring about
what can be done for their client. It has
tripled. I can't handle all of these people.
So far we're doing a good job at either working
with them or referring them out, but that is a huge
increase just for me. So this is not going to
go away. Whether it's Covid where people are
now, everyone is in their home and relying upon
the internet, or whether it's going to be after
Covid, when it becomes real obvious that
everyone deserves the right to equal access
everywhere, including the web. And personally
I appreciate that there's a tension being
brought to the lack of web accessibility,
I just don't care for these trolls at all.
So the more that we make websites accessible, the
more these trolls, is going to make their efforts
more difficult and that's a goal of mine. Here's
an interesting piece of information from the
report from WebAIM. The top six common types
of WCAG 2 failures on these sites that they
tested, look at this. Low contrast text, 86 percent point three of pages had
low contrast text. Earlier today there was
a presentation about colours and contrast.
So hopefully you attended that particular
presentation. If not, when these videos are
available, I do hope that you go back and you
watch and listen to what Colleen had to say.
Right at the top, Low Contrast. Personally,
I don't understand why people put gray
font on a light gray background. That's never
made sense to me, but I see that on so many sites,  and obviously WebAIM
found something similar. The
other one, Missing alternative text for images, 66 %.
Come on, that's like the one
thing we talk about the most.
Empty links, Missing form fields, Empty buttons,
Missing the document language? We're not even going
to tell people what the language of the website is?
How easy if you had a website that had
these six errors, they came to you, how
easy would it be for you to remediate that
site? Keeping that in mind, why aren't they?
That's my question. Maybe they need you
to knock on their door and tell them.
Now at the same time I read legal cases on a
daily basis. I always tell people if you can't go
to sleep, something that's better than counting
sheep is to read some of these legal briefs.
They're not really entertaining, but they
are educational and the most common problems
referred in these cases, the website prevents
screen readers from accessing primary content.
Oh boy, here we go again, no text description for
an image, forms not working, you can't increase
the text to 200 % without loss of content
or functionality? Here's one that a lot of people
don't think about. If you have something on
your website that has a time limit on it,
you need to let people have a way to adjust it,
disable it, slow it down, restart it, instead of
just timing them out and kicking them off. Because
a sighted person would see if there's a countdown,
but perhaps someone with a disability either
doesn't get the warning, can't read the warning,
can't respond fast enough to the warning,
because you didn't give them enough time.
Web pages without titles, oh my goodness. It is so
easy to put a title in a WordPress site. How could that
happen, I'm beside myself. The purpose of each link
cannot be determined from the text link alone,
and that's where we get a whole lot of those, click
here. And I believe we had someone just a couple of
presentations previous, that talked about just that.
Very, very important. So you see that the problems
that are being referenced in lawsuits and the ones
that WebAIM found are simple to remediate. They're
simple to put in in the first place, but when you
have a client come to you with a site that has
these problems, these are the simple ones to fix. So
what's the solution to the lack of accessibility?
Very simple, make products that are accessible to
everyone out of the gate. We do know that now that
there are themes within the WordPress repository
that are accessible ready. I do know there are
uh people that, that's all they will
work with, is an accessible ready theme.
And then they make sure that the contents
and the images and everything they add to
it remains accessible. They make their job easy.
Remediate products and areas that have barriers,
support companies and products that are accessible
and innovate with new products. You may not have
known, that the disabled market or excuse me the
disabled community, is actually considered
to be extreme users of certain products. What that
means is, what you may not also be aware of is that
voice recognition software has been available
for people with disabilities for 20 plus years,
and because people with disabilities were using
voice technician, voice recognition technology,
that same technology is now used in
Alexa and Siri and Google's assistant.
So something that was done for a, what was a
select group of people by their first analysis,
is something that has now
been rolled out for everyone.
So it's not a small group. It's all of us that
benefit from these products. But let's move into
what people want to know about tonight and that
is, the Increased Value of Accessibility for both
Designers and Companies. What you hear a lot is,
accessibility can drive innovation, such as what
I just mentioned, it can enhance your brand or
hurt it, it helps SEO, it can minimize legal risk
and it can extend your market reach. And yet,
those five points to some people are just vague.
Yeah, maybe, but what about me, what can it do for
me, for my company or what can it do for me?
I'm a designer with a small agency,
what can it do? So I want to remind you,
if my slides will progress, this
market, 98.1% of the market needs you,
for your web accessibility knowledge, expertise
to go in there and make a difference, 98%. So when
I hear people tell me, well you know what, I, my
client doesn't want to pay for accessibility.
I don't know what to do? Ninety-eight percent of the marketplace
need you. So if that client doesn't want
to be inclusive and bring accessibility in
and you have done your best to educate them,
maybe you need to turn your attention to
somebody who will appreciate you and your skills
and your commitment and your dedication. Just
saying. But then we come back to, well what can
I charge? You know I mean, I, I don't know, how can
I mark this up? How do I make a living doing this?
When I first had a website made for me it
was in 1996, 97-ish, the person charged me $3, 000.
I didn't think anything of it at the
time, other than, phew, that's a lot of money,
but I also thought that must be the going rate,
because I had nothing else to compare it to.
But the person that designed my website was not
very pleased, because I kept asking questions and I
wanted this little tweak and just that change, and
can we do this, and let's move that and he made a
statement one day and said, look I just don't have
time for all your questions. If you want answers,
go take a class and get the answers for yourself.
So I did and I never had to ask him another
question, but I also never had to pay him any more
money, because I knew how then to do it myself.
So trust me, I never say that to clients, but
I look back at that and when I first started
working websites myself, I knew I couldn't
charge $3,000. I didn't have
that much intelligence, expertise, information,
experience, even though I'd just taken a class.
I didn't think I could and I didn't. So I came up
with a value calculator and here's where if you
have a pen or pencil handy or you take notes on a
notepad or something, I'd like you to consider this.
When you think about what is your value when
you include accessibility into your services,
what do you charge for a basic website
prior to adding any accessibility to it?
Put down that figure. Now I want you to consider
your personal value. If you have taken classes on
accessibility, put a plus. If you have certificates
or degrees, put a plus. If you have any business
awards or accolades, whether they're related to
accessibility or just because you have integrity
and you are a good business person and you take
care of your clients, give yourself a plus.
If you are a disabled person yourself or someone
in your family or a friend that you see often,
put a plus. If you have employees that are
disabled that work for you, put a plus. If
you have an understanding of WCAG for each
level of understanding, put a plus, or a big plus.
If you are very in, involved in a particular
niche market that you know real well,
you know what the market is, what drives them to
do what they do in their business, put a plus.
My niche market is attorneys. It's been attorneys for
the last 10 and a half years. So I know attorneys.
I know the legal marketplace, I know what they're
allowed to do and what they're not allowed to do
when it comes to marketing and advertising. I am
always networking with them. So I know that market.
If you have a market like that, give yourself a
plus. Give yourself a plus for every year that
you already have been including accessibility.
If you can write code, give yourself a couple
of big pluses. And if you often network with other
accessibility professionals, give yourself a plus.
And then think about what else sets you
apart from everyone else. That is a huge plus.
When you look at all those pluses you're going to
put a dollar amount to that, not with me tonight,
but at a time when you're going to sit down,
because this is something that is personal to you.
Not what everybody else is charging, but what
is your value. When you understand your value
you can explain it to your clients and that's
the important part. So you start with that value,
then you go to something where it requires
manual efforts. This is an excerpt, a clipping from
one of the checklists that we use in my office.
And it's a spreadsheet that has on the left column
whatever action that we need to take in order to
remediate a site, who's going to do that, is that
person someone that works internal in my company
or do we have to outsource, and what is the cost.
Every person that works on a project, if they're
internal, they have either a salary or a negotiated
amount that they are paid. If we outsource it, we
are paying whatever they tell us is their value
to do that for us. We go down the list and we
make sure that we cover all our bases. We do test
everything on JAWS and N V D A by a native user of
that. When we are remediating images we don't just
throw in the alt description and call it a day. We
research and maybe we have to find them a new
image if the one that is on their site is really
not that great. Maybe it needs editing, because it's
too pixelated, maybe it's too big, maybe it doesn't
fit the content? We're going to change the meta
info and the geo info for search and we're going
to do all that, because we go the extra effort.
What we're doing for our client is more than
just fixing the technical problems, we want
a good user experience for them as our client and
their website for their users and their visitors.
So think about this type of an effort and what
value would you put into each one of those? How
would you separate yourself from everyone
else? A lot of times people calculate an
hourly rate. I talked to someone this week who
told me he came to me and asked me if I'd hire
him, because he couldn't afford to be freelance
anymore. So I looked at what he charged a client
to work on a website and how many extra hours got
thrown in that he didn't calculate. The end of the
day, he was making less than $7 an hour.
So in Southern California you can't live on that.
So I told him, if you're going to calculate
your value by an hourly rate, ask yourself,
what is your resentment number. What is the lowest
amount you would ever allow a client to say
This is how much I'll pay you per hour and
take that number and multiply it by four.
You should never work at a level that causes
you to not enjoy the work that you're doing,
because accessibility can be a whole lot of
fun. The people that you will meet, the clients
when they get excited, it's just fun. And then
you have more value, updates and maintenance
plans. In a lot of the settlements we're seeing,
in these legal cases, they're asking the court
to require that people test their sites every
six months. That's a maintenance plan for you.
So that's how you add value, that's how you add
more to you. Your total value then becomes your
unique value, your cost per hour, your team that
you work with, the complexity of the site that
you're going to be working on, and how well your
skills and expertise can do that, the timeline.
Rush jobs always cost more and future offerings,
your your updates and your maintenance plans.
Then you put that into a strategy. When I first
started in business in the 80s, long time ago,
I was out in my neighborhood asking businesses why
were they successful and the guy next door wasn't?
Why did they continually succeed when people
across the street kept going out of business?
And what I heard more times from the successful
business, is they had a plan. They didn't wing it.
They put in a plan and they planned it out
as far as they could. They put in that plan,
not only the type of customers and clients
they wanted, they put in that plan the type
of education they may need in order to
satisfy those clients, they put in that plan
what would happen if business really picked up.
So many people plan in the minute and worry about
something going wrong, but as I said a couple
seconds ago, my phone calls and my emails have
really exploded in the last few months. Fortunately I, have a list of people that I can call upon,
that I'm able to make sure that that those
contacts and those inquiries were taken care of.
Take the information about your value,
your expertise, what kind of websites
you want to work on, and what you want to do,
and put it into a plan and follow that plan.
Be transparent with your
client but don't be invisible.
What we do for our clients, is we either work in
Basecamp or Asana. We work in Slack and Toggl
and we give our clients reports all the time.
They know exactly what we're doing for them, so
they don't have to worry. And what we do, is we
audit their website and we give them a report.
And we may audit that website with an
automatic tester, before we put our hands
on it and manually test it, and we will give them
that report, but then we make sure that they see
the difference it makes with someone who is
keyboard only, and someone who is screen reader.
That way they get a better understanding of
their target market. They get a better personal
understanding of accessibility. I have been working
with accessibility and websites for 12 years,
maybe a little bit longer and I was brought to my
knees humbly, at that point. I had been designing
websites and I thought I was doing a great job.
I thought I was really proud of what I had,
and then a member of my family who is blind had
the benefit of someone coming to show her how to
use a screen reader to access the web and visit
websites. I was emotionally blown away by how much
freedom it gave her, but I also was humbled when I
gave the man my URLS of the sites I was so proud
of and asked him to test them. And not a single
one of them could be read by a screen reader.
My world changed that day. And so I'm hoping
that as you get accustomed to accessibility,
your world takes a shift and you shift to
where this just becomes part of what you do,
don't even have to think about it. So after you
get the test and you find out what you're doing
and you start working with your client, please
do the easy stuff first and the reason for this
is, if you are working on the most difficult part
of the website where you possibly have to write
some new code and redesign certain things,
your client doesn't see what you're doing.
He doesn't see that you're making any sort
of progress at all, but if you go through the
little things first or what I call the easy
things, not little, they're all important, the
easiest things first and then show your
client as you go along. Your client sees
progress. Your client sees hope and knows
that you're doing what you'd promised to do.
We always follow the WCAG, the checklist. I
have this spreadsheet on the screen that shows
the guidelines and where they fall on the WCAG,
and all of our spreadsheets we reference not only
with internally to each other, but to our clients,
which web content accessibility guidelines success
criteria we are meeting for them. They don't care,
but they do care that we tell them. They don't
understand it, but they care that we tell them and
that's the transparency of it. And that's what's
important. Plus when you follow the WCAG you learn
the WCAG. When you do this, the simple stuff first
you learn. It's easier to learn. So basically you
can have an increased profit with your business
by increasing your value to your client, increasing
in the fees that you're going to charge them,
because of the value of what you're bringing to
the table. This will increase your business income
and unless you go out and buy a brand new Ferrari,
it should be an increase in your profit. But I
want you to notice that one thing I didn't say, I
didn't talk about plug-ins as part of this process,
because it's good bad and ugly with WordPress. The
good is there's plugins that can do work for you.
The bad is, a lot of those plugins will make the
site worse and you're now going to have to figure
out how to remediate over the plugin that you
just installed. And the ugly is that there are
plugins that through their marketing efforts
are going to try to tell you that they'll do
your job for you. And then when they don't,
you're the one that's in trouble. So don't be
the bad apple. Be willing to put in the effort.
You will enjoy it, you'll get excited, trust me.
Now we'll get to the second half and I promise
that this is a good part of it that
you'll be able to share with your clients.
The Profitability for Companies. People
with disabilities are not a solitary market.
They are surrounded by family members and
friends. They recognize products and services
that accommodate people in society. They will
refer to people when it is an accessible website.
So you want to show them the
money. In the U.S., the total after
after tax disposable income for working
age people with a disability is 490
billion dollars. That's a lot of money.
Discretionary income which is the income that
they get to spend after they've paid all their
their debts and their taxes is still 21 billion.
Most people aren't aware of these numbers.
You want to share these with your clients.
Interesting note that we discovered, is that
individuals with hearing difficulties represent
the disability category with the greatest amount
of discretionary income, followed by people with
vision disabilities. So when you heard about
captions from Meryl earlier, earlier today
this shows why that's important. You can explain
that to your clients. If you're in the U.K. what
we have there is, internet users are 10.7 million
or 10.07. Sixty-nine percent of people will leave a site
if they have a problem with access and they will
go someplace else. This is called the click-away
pound report and in my resources I do have a link
that you can read this entire report and share it
with your clients. I also have a Nielsen report
that gives all the information for U.S. companies,
but the worst case scenario that you can tell
your clients is that the cost of a lawsuit is far
greater. An attorney retainer can be up to $5000, the settlement costs the loss of
work. Those are real figures and I do not lead with
this with my clients. I lead with the numbers for
the market that they can reach. If they don't want
to listen, then I'll bring this part in. But how
should they market to the disabled community?
Decide to developing products that meet that
needs of people with disabilities. They should get
involved in the community. They also need to employ
people with disabilities. Inclusive advertising,
put an accessibility statement on their website,
because far too many designers think, well I'll
just go in and tell my client if they make their
website accessible, that people will flock to
it. That's not true. It will give a boost to
the SEO in some cases, but they still need to
do their marketing. It's essential and this is
the type of marketing that they need to do. If
they do this marketing, if they do it genuine,
they will see a return of that marketplace, because
like any other community, people with disabilities
do talk about people that treat them right. And
when you think about your price and your value
just remember there's always somebody who's
willing to do it cheaper. So don't cut yourself
short when you're talking to your clients about
your value. Make sure that you go for the big value.
So some of the references are resources that I'll
share with you, is the automatic accessibility
checkers that we use. We don't use one more than
another except, the top two. We love the Deque Axe-Pro Beta,
because of the type of reports that we can
give our client and we love the Tenon API which
you can put in your website, so that you can see as
you're working what you're doing and what needs to
be done. So you don't have to wait till something
is done to go, did I do it right? By putting the
API on your website for this one, you'll be able
to watch your progress and learn as you go along.
Other resources that I mentioned,
these are places where you can learn
knowledge: The Web Accessibility Initiative at
w3.org has a free course on the introduction
to web accessibility, and you can get a
certificate for completing that course
and it is a great course. I've done that course. I
refer people to that course. It's full of knowledge.
Knowbility, excellent resource, Deque, WebAIM, CSUN,
University of Illinois, University of Washington,
the information is available. The educational
resources are there. If you need to have a
native user to test, here are three places
where you can have, you can contract with them
for someone or gain a referral. Again, Knowibility
Access Works, Pearson for the blind and CSUN which
is here in Southern California. Also in my slides
will be the links and resources to the statistics
that I quoted for the companies, for the number
of people in the community and the spending power.
So in summary 98.1 % of websites need remediation.
One in four people have a recognized disability.
Accessibility is international. It's a right, it's a,
it's a personal right, it's a civil right. Plan your
design to include accessibility, have a strategy
for remediation, understand the why and how of your
value to a client, understand the potential market
so you can explain it to your client. Check the
obvious and fix those first, fonts, structure, colour
schemes, video, audio. Don't rely only on automatic
testers. Test your site manually. Have a native
user of accessibility technology test your site.
Be transparent with your clients and support
the community. And I know I talked fast. I wanted
to give you a lot of information and since I
know we're being recorded you can come back
and visit this information again. But I do believe
if there are questions, maybe I have a couple
minutes to answer questions.
[Joe] Yes you do, thank you
so much Sumner. What a great presentation, thank you.
All right, let me refresh here. Our first question is,
Is there a study answering the following
question: How many people leave a web page because
of accessibility failure?
[Sumner] Sixty-seven percent. It's in the pound away report.
[Joe] Okay
[Sumner] And the report also indicates that
when people leave that website they don't give up, they do spend that money elsewhere. So it's a total
loss.
[Joe} All right, do you feel designer and developer reluctance in folding in accessibility is that
they undercharge or overestimate their bottom line? How would you recommend they address
this or can you share a brief experience?
[Sumner] My recommendation would be that they
go through that list of what I did for value and
accept more about what their personal value is as
a designer. And if they've undervalued themselves,
this is so, this is probably a personal issue that
they need to take and look at. And they might want
to sit and work with someone. I sit with designers
all the time that want to discuss, how can I
increase what I charge? I don't know what my assets are?
So if, if a person will take a list of what
are their personal assets, like the list I rang off
and then reevaluate. What does happen, is many
times they don't charge enough, they get burned out.
And then it becomes resentment and that doesn't
work, but at the same time whatever amount they
charge you don't want to overcharge because
you're going to have to live up to that amount.
[Joe] All right, next question, do you think
that web development is driven too much by
developers needing to rapidly solve problems
defined by business rather than by users?
[Sumner] Not sure if I understand that question.
[Joe] Okay,
let me, let me restate it. Do you think that web development is driven too much by developers
who are try trying to solve business related
problems instead of trying to solve the
problem in terms of how a user would use it?
[Sumner] So if I understand that correctly, a client's
going to come to a designer and say I need
a website built, because I need to sell a product,
instead of I need a website built that's the best
for user experience so I can get more business.
[Joe] Correct
[Sumner] Okay, well yeah, clients don't know. We have to educate them. That's what they need from us.They
need us to say, hey you know what, that's great let
me help you understand how we can make that that
dream of yours even bigger and more profitable.
So we as designers need to also be educators.
Once we understand it, we can explain it.
[Joe] All right, this is a really brief one, For the
non-legal, what is a demand letter? You mentioned
that in your presentation. What does that mean
in relation to accessibility?
[Sumner] Demand letter is,
it's actually a form letter unfortunately,
but it comes in on an attorney letterhead
and it says dear website owner I'm sending you
this letter because my client a blind user or
a person with another disability, attempted to
visit your website and there was barriers that
prevented this person from equal access. So it's
important that you contact our office to discuss
some form of remuneration for the difficulties
and the problems that our client has endured.
And that is the precursor to them filing
a case. They send out the demand letter,
because they want someone to call and go please
please please and beg that you don't hurt them. When
uh most of those demand letters don't turn into
cases, but many of them do. In either case, it's
important to consult with an attorney how to
respond.
[Joe] Awesome. Okay our final question is, excuse me, if you build a website with accessibility in
mind and the same site without it what do you
think the the difference in cost would be between
the two sites in terms of what you can charge?
That's that's a difficult question. I'm not sure...
[Sumner] Well, I don't know that I can answer it, because if I
go back to when I was building sites before I
knew anything about accessibility and I know
what I charge then, versus what I charge now,
I don't know how I would back out all my
accessibility efforts to try to figure out
what that would be.
[Joe] Yeah, yeah I
was gonna say I wouldn't, I mean
[Sumner] I, I can't I can't even figure that out.
[Joe] Yeah, that's a difficult question.
It reminds me, I used to, I used to speak um at high
schools um or go to the school when they had the
parents come to work and there would always be a
kid who would say, how much do you make, which is,
I mean it's a random question. I'm not making fun
of it, but it's a difficult question to quantify,
because your value is based on that formula you
talked about.
[Sumner] Exactly and too many times I see in forum posts and discussion groups where someone
will say, well okay I'm going to build a five-page
website for a client, what would you charge?
Well first off that's not enough information
to find out what that price would be, but on the
other hand don't choose somebody else's number.
Your value and their value are totally
different and and I, I, I really believe that when
we get into that thinking pattern where we,
so what is it I'm bringing to the table here?
And be real clear of what I'm bringing to the
table has a big value to this client, because
no one else is bringing this same value. And I'm
going to make a difference to this client and
their website and the user experience that no
one else is going to do, because they're not me.
And that and it's not ego, it's confidence.
[Joe] Great,
well thanks again Sumner, um what what are you up to in the next few weeks, or what what can we
look forward to hearing from, from you with?
[Sumner] What well, I've got a lot of speaking engagements, it seems,
you know since we're not traveling the country
or the world right now. Everybody's on Zoom. So
I have a lot of that and um we're planning for
a next meetup that's coming up that we're going
to do another hands-on. We have the WordCamp
Los Angeles that's coming up in a couple of weeks.
So there's a lot still going on.
[Joe] Awesome, well thanks again for for sharing with this incredible
international audience and I know we appreciate it.
[Sumner] For people that want to, for I didn't, sorry I
didn't mean to interrupt Joe, but for people
people that want to follow me
I'm Sumner Davenport on Twitter,
I'm Sumner Davenport on LinkedIn or please go to
the meetup and look for the WordPress San Fernando
Valley. And since we're on Zoom you can come in
from anywhere in the globe and participate and
contribute and let's all learn together.
[Joe] How, how
can I be so rude and not let you lean on that.
All right thank you again Sumner.
[Sumner] Thank you, Joe.
[Joe] All right I personally
like to thank Joe Dolson for his leadership,
I'd like to thank my moderators Zsolt Edelényi and Danang Aprias Noor Fadilla and all the volunteers
and organizers who made this incredible event
possible. As it continues on, make sure you check in
for our next presentation who's going to be hosted
by Robert Remedios. He'll introduce our next talk
called Gutenberg Accessibility a Screen Reader
User's Perspective with Raghavendra Satish at
at five o'clock UTC on this same channel. See
you there and we'll be back after a short break.